RAFAEL IRIZARRY: An important part of data analysis is summarizing data.
Examples of summary statistics are the median, mean, and standard deviation.
We learn more about these in the data visualization course.
We will also learn that better understanding of the data
can be achieved by splitting it into groups, then providing summaries
for each.
In this section, we cover two new dplyr verbs
that make these computations easier--
group_by and summarize.
We learn to access resulting values in the table.
And finally we also learn how to arrange which
helps us examine data after sorting.
We're going to start by loading the tidyverse libraries.
Let's start by discussing the summarize function.
The summarize function in dplyr provides a way
to compute summary statistics with intuitive and readable code.
Let's start with a simple example based on the murders data
set we've been looking at.
We start by loading the library, loading the data,
and we're actually going to create a column with the murder rates,
like this.
We want to compute the minimum, median, and maximum murder rates
for states in the Western region.
So we're first going to stratify, look at a group,
and then compute the summary statistics.
We can do it using this code.
This takes our original data table as input,
filters to keep only states in the West, and then
produces a new, summarized table with the minimum, median, and maximum rates.
We get to pick the names of the columns of the resulting table.
For example, in the code we just saw, we decided
to use minimum, median, and maximum, but we could
have used other names just the same.
Because the resulting table, stored in s, is a data frame,
we can access the components with the accessor, the dollar sign.
In this case, this will be a numeric, as you see here.
As with most other dplyr functions, summarize
is aware of the variable names and we can use them directly.
So when inside the call to summarize we write median rate,
it is accessing the column with that name
and then computing the median of the respective numeric vector.
Note that we can compute any other summary.
For example, suppose we want to compute the murder rate for the entire country.
Note that taking the average rate, like this,
does not give the right answer because some states are
much more populous than others and they need to be weighed more.
Instead, we can compute the rate using this code,
using the summarize function.